## Analysis

This folder contains the following jupyter notebooks:
- LiME_binning_output_analysis,
- LiME_parameters,
- Effectiveness,
- EffectivenessGraphs.

Notice that these notebooks can be run before running the reassignment tool. In fact, they can provide intresting information and insights to access in which extent the reassignment procedure can be effective. <br>
In addtion, they can be helpful in the parameters of LiME_binning tool by providing a graphical representation of the binning result.


#### LiME_binning_output_analysis
This notebook takes in input the output file generated by LiME_binning tool and performes some analysis (number of clusters, cardinality of the largest cluster, ...). <br>
It generates a .csv file with the results of the analysis and, in addition, it also plots a graph with the top k largest clusters, where the parameter k can be arbitraly chosen (0 <= k < number of clusters).


#### LiME_parameters
This notebook takes in input a .txt file organized in four columns:  <i>(alpha,t) num_clusters max_set_cardinality non_grouped reads</i>. <br>
All the specifications about the format of the input file are contained in the notebook itself. <br>
Running this notebook will generate a graph where the number of clusters, the cardinality of the largest cluster and the number of non grouped reads are plotted for each (alpha, t) pair that has been provided in the input file.


#### Effectiveness
This notebook takes in input the reads dataset, the groups generated by LiME_binning tool and a classification of the reads. Given these three files, the following analysis are performed:
- number of clusters containing only unlabelled reads ('pathological' clusters) and number of 'pathological' reads,
- number of clusters with ties in the max label (and also 'zero' ties),
- number of clusters where the most frequent class is '0' (unlabeled) and correspondent number of reads,
- impact of pathological clusters/reads and majority zero clusters on total and partial reassignment step.

The output of these analysis is stored in a .csv file called <b><i>classifier_name</i>_effectiveness</b>, more info are provided in the notebook itself. <br>
In addition, it plots a graph with the top k largest clusters, where the parameter k can be arbitraly chosen (0 <= k < number of clusters) and, for each plotted cluster, the cardinality of the most frequent class is shown, the case in which the most frequent class is '0' (unlabeled) is distinghuished in the graph.


#### EffectivenessGraph
This notebook takes in input one or more outputs of the 'Effectiveness' notebook and generates graphs showing the results obtained in the just mentioned notebook. <br>
The interesting features is that the 'Effectiveness output' of more classifiers can be plotted allowing a comparison and study of the difference between different classification outputs of the same reads dataset.


#### Other information
All the notebooks have been run using examples files that can be found in the following folder: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/13FQhXfBz6pPDQ69xSuQ0xaWyvtBokqKb?usp=sharing <br>
The following files are not provided in the folder:
- reads dataset file,
- LiME_binning output file,
- classification file.

All the output files generated by running the notebooks will be in the 'output' folder within the 'Analysis' folder.